.TH DMENU 1 dmenu\-VERSION
.SH NAME
dmenu \- dynamic menu
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dmenu
.RB [ \-bfiv ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR lines ]
.RB [ \-m
.IR monitor ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR prompt ]
.RB [ \-fn
.IR font ]
.RB [ \-nb
.IR color ]
.RB [ \-nf
.IR color ]
.RB [ \-sb
.IR color ]
.RB [ \-sf
.IR color ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR windowid ]
.P
.BR dmenu_run " ..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dmenu
is a dynamic menu for X, which reads a list of newline\-separated items from
stdin.  When the user selects an item and presses Return, their choice is printed
to stdout and dmenu terminates.  Entering text will narrow the items to those
matching the tokens in the input.
.P
.B dmenu_run
is a script used by
.IR dwm (1)
which lists programs in the user's $PATH and runs the result in their $SHELL.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
dmenu appears at the bottom of the screen.
.TP
.B \-f
dmenu grabs the keyboard before reading stdin if not reading from a tty. This
is faster, but will lock up X until stdin reaches end\-of\-file.
.TP
.B \-i
dmenu matches menu items case insensitively.
.TP
.BI \-l " lines"
dmenu lists items vertically, with the given number of lines.
.TP
.BI \-m " monitor"
dmenu is displayed on the monitor number supplied. Monitor numbers are starting
from 0.
.TP
.BI \-p " prompt"
defines the prompt to be displayed to the left of the input field.
.TP
.BI \-fn " font"
defines the font or font set used.
.TP
.BI \-nb " color"
defines the normal background color.
.IR #RGB ,
.IR #RRGGBB ,
and X color names are supported.
.TP
.BI \-nf " color"
defines the normal foreground color.
.TP
.BI \-sb " color"
defines the selected background color.
.TP
.BI \-sf " color"
defines the selected foreground color.
.TP
.B \-v
prints version information to stdout, then exits.
.TP
.BI \-w " windowid"
embed into windowid.
